Update Caching and Security with Cloud SDK for Version 3.0 (#3804)
SAPDocuments/Tutorials: tutorials/s4sdk-secure-cloudfoundry/s4sdk-secure-cloudfoundry.md

    }
    ```

3. Within `<destLocation>/approuter` create a new file called `xs-app.json` with the following content:
    ```json
    {
      "welcomeFile": "index.html",
      "routes": [{
        "source": "/",
        "target": "/",
        "destination": "app-destination"
        }]
    }
    ```

4. Now head to `<destLocation>/firstapp` and replace the `random-route: true` in `manifest.yml` with the following content:

    ```yaml
    routes:

>       - route: firstapp-<SUBACCOUNT>.cfapps.<REGION_IDENTIFIER>.hana.ondemand.com

Reviewer: Thinking about it again, I don't think that it is necessary to adapt the route of the backend. The tenant identification is only necessary for the approuter route. As long as the correct URL is entered in destinations below, all should be fine.

Author: I believe you are correct. However, I am not sure how random-route behaves when redeploying, especially when you do that by deleting the app in the cockpit and pushing it again. The point here is more to have a stable, unique URL. I'll test if it works with a random route even after redeploying.

    ```

>     Replace `<SUBACCOUNT>` with your actual account, which is the one you use in the CF CLI to login to Cloud Foundry. With this step we determine a route instead of generating a random route. This is important since we will configure the app router for exactly this destination. Further change the `<REGION_IDENTIFIER>` to match your region (e.g. `eu10`). If you are unsure about your region, head to your Cloud Foundry Cockpit Home Screen. More details on the region specific URLs can be found [here](https://help.sap.com/viewer/65de2977205c403bbc107264b8eccf4b/Cloud/en-US/350356d1dc314d3199dca15bd2ab9b0e.html).

Reviewer: See above, move this down, but add an explanation on how to identify the value for `<SUBACCOUNT>`. This is not self-evident for readers. They need to go into the SCP cockpit and look for the subdomain associated with the subaccount, so a screenshot will be helpful.

Author: AFAIK the subaccount is the one required when logging into CF with `cf login`. Given the instructions in [creating the sample app](https://developers.sap.com/tutorials/s4sdk-cloud-foundry-sample-application.html) I feel it should be clear. Or am I missing something here?

5. Redeploy your application to Cloud Foundry by pushing with `cf push`. Make sure the route was registered successfully by accessing your application via the browser. If applicable remove old routes in the Cloud Foundry Cockpit.

6. With a proper URL set in place we can now create a new `manifest.yml` file within `<destLocation>` for the app router microservice with the following content:

    ```yaml

    ---
    applications:
    - name: approuter
      routes:
        - route: approuter-<SUBACCOUNT>.cfapps.<REGION_IDENTIFIER>.hana.ondemand.com
      path: approuter
      memory: 128M
      buildpacks:
        - nodejs_buildpack
      env:
        TENANT_HOST_PATTERN: 'approuter-(.*).cfapps.<REGION_IDENTIFIER>.hana.ondemand.com'
        destinations: '[{"name":"app-destination", "url" :<APPLICATION_URL>, "forwardAuthToken": true}]'
      services:
        - my-xsuaa
    ```

    Adapt the file as follows:

      - Just like before provide the values for your account and region
      - In `destinations` replace `<APPLICATION_URL>` with the actual URL of your previously deployed app.

> **Note**: It is mandatory that your app URL conforms the format `<APP_NAME>-<SUBACCOUNT>.cfapps.<REGION_IDENTIFIER>.hana.ondemand.com`. The authentication mechanism will identify you by pulling the user-id (`SUBACCOUNT`) out of the subdomain.

Reviewer: See above. It is not the user-id that gets pulled out, but the subdomain which is then mapped to the tenant-id.

Author: I believe the wording is correct. The subdomain is `approuter-UID`, the pattern `approuter-(.*).cfapps...` handles extracting the UID = tenant id from the subdomain.

### Understanding the AppRouter's `manifest.yml` and `xs-app.json`

> The `TENANT_HOST_PATTERN` is a variable that declares the pattern how multiple tenants in the URL are identified and handled. During runtime, the App Router will match the incoming host against the pattern and tries to extract the regular expression from the pattern. It will use the matched string to delegate authentication to the respective XSUAA tenant (in SAP Cloud Platform the tenant ID corresponds to the subaccount ID. If you desire different URL patterns, you need to change this pattern accordingly.

Reviewer: While tenant ID = subaccount ID holds, this is not the subdomain used here, so tenant ID is not directly related to the URL pattern.

`<destLocation>/xs-security.json`:

```json
{
  "xsappname": "firstapp-<SUBACCOUNT>",
  "tenant-mode": "shared",
  "scopes": [
    {
      "name": "$XSAPPNAME.Display",
      "description": "display"
    }
  ],
  "role-templates": [
    {
      "name": "Viewer",
      "description": "Required to view things in our solution",
      "scope-references"     : [
        "$XSAPPNAME.Display"
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

Create the file and change the app name just like before.

We then create a service instance called `my-xsuaa` of the XSUAA service by issuing the following command and using the `xs-security.json` file:  

```bash
cf create-service xsuaa application my-xsuaa -c xs-security.json
```

If you have created this instance of the XSUAA service before without the `xs-security.json` parameter, you can unbind and delete the existing instance with these commands before creating it with the above command:

```bash
cf unbind-service firstapp my-xsuaa
cf delete-service my-xsuaa​
```

> Then deploy the app router using the following (with the appropriate API endpoint of your Cloud Foundry region):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you have created the XSUAA service instance, deploy the app router using the following (with the appropriate API endpoint of your Cloud Foundry region):
```

```bash
cd <destLocation>
cf push
```

Afterwards you should be able to locate the app router from within your browser using the host name of your deployment. In my case this is `https://approuter-p1942765239trial.cfapps.eu10.hana.ondemand.com/hello` which should face you with the following login page where you can use your user e-mail and password:

![login](Figure5-1.png)

After logging in you should see the `HelloWorld` servlet which is now served by the App Router as a proxy to your Java application:

![helloworld](Figure6-1.png)

[DONE]
[ACCORDION-END]

> 

Reviewer: This is still required, isn't it, if you use the dependencies listed in the pom below. For example, `com.sap.xs2.security` is not on Maven Central.

However, the setup should be easier with the approach described here: [with SAP buildpack](https://github.com/SAP/cloud-security-xsuaa-integration/tree/master/samples/sap-java-buildpack-api-usage) or here: [with Spring security](https://github.com/SAP/cloud-security-xsuaa-integration/tree/master/spring-xsuaa)

    }
    ```

3. Within `<destLocation>/approuter` create a new file called `xs-app.json` with the following content:
    ```json
    {
      "welcomeFile": "index.html",
      "routes": [{
        "source": "/",
        "target": "/",
        "destination": "app-destination"
        }]
    }
    ```

4. Last but not least create a new `manifest.yml` file within `<destLocation>` for the app router microservice with the following content:

    ```yaml

    ---
    applications:
    - name: approuter
      routes:
        - route: approuter-<subdomain>.cfapps.<region_id>.hana.ondemand.com
      path: approuter
      memory: 128M
      buildpacks:
        - nodejs_buildpack
      env:
        TENANT_HOST_PATTERN: 'approuter-(.*).cfapps.<region_id>.hana.ondemand.com'
        destinations: '[{"name":"app-destination", "url" :<APPLICATION_URL>, "forwardAuthToken": true}]'
      services:
        - my-xsuaa
    ```

    Adapt the file as follows:

      1. Replace `<subdomain>` with your subdomain. You will find your subdomain in the CF cockpit by heading to the overview page of your sub-account:

>           ![Subomain and Tenant ID in the CF Cockpit](Figure-3-1.png)

Reviewer 2: This image needs to show the Subdomain, but it appears to be showing part of a tenant ID.

Author: The subdomain and most parts of the tenant ID are blurred out in order to not give away account details.

3. Afterwards, select the role collection **Business Partner Manager** and select **Add Role**. From the menu, select your application and the corresponding role template and role. ![Creating a Role](Figure8-3.png)

4. Afterwards, the user has to be assigned to the newly created **Business Partner Manager** in order to receive the **Display** scope. In order to do this, select the trust configuration from the security menu and select the **SAP ID Service** from the list

5. In the opening dialog, enter your user ID as e-mail into the user field and click **Show Assignments** followed by **Add Assignments**

6. Select the **Business Partner Manager** role collection from the menu to assign it to your user

![Add User Assignment](Figure8-4.png)

Afterwards you have a route that is protected by the `Display` OAuth scope which you can still access because the user has now the corresponding role.

That's it for today. Now you have learned the basics to protect your application on SCP Cloud Foundry using the SAP Cloud SDK.

[DONE]
[ACCORDION-END]

[ACCORDION-BEGIN [Step 9: ](Appendix)]
### Understanding Roles, Role Collections and Scopes

> The following picture explains how the various concepts are related to each other.

Reviewer: There is a picture missing here.

[DONE]
[ACCORDION-END]

[ACCORDION-BEGIN [Step 11: ](Troubleshooting OAuth Scopes from XSUAA)]
In addition, you may use the XSUAA to see which current scopes and roles a particular users has. You could do this with your XSUAA tenant-specific URL:

`https://<tenantId>.authentication.eu10.hana.ondemand.com/config?action=who`

[DONE]
[ACCORDION-END]

[ACCORDION-BEGIN [Step 12: ](Set up your own Identity Provider)]
So far, we have used the XSUAA service itself as the user provider. However, in production scenarios customer's may want to use their own Identity Provider (IdP) as a user provider or delegate into on-premise user stores such as LDAP or Active Directory. In the following, we quickly show how the XSUAA service can delegate requests to such an external IdPs.

To make this happen, the IdP and the service provider (SP) have to exchange security metadata, i.e., the IdP has to import the metadata of the SP and vice versa.

> You can retrieve the metadata from your XSUAA tenant by following the pattern `https://<tenantID>.authentication.eu10.hana.ondemand.com/saml/metadata`. In my case, that would be `https://p1942765239trial.authentication.eu10.hana.ondemand.com/saml/metadata`. This downloads the metadata to your local computer.

Reviewer: Replace `<tenantID>` with subdomain as above for consistency.
